Overview
--------
This is the "peaky_pitchshift" dataset that evaluates the effects of narrator
and f0 on ABRs to re-synthesized peaky speech for the paper
Polonenko MJ & Maddox RK (2024), with citation listed below.

BioRxiv: 

In brief, it contains EEG data for 15 participants who listened to 30 trials (10 s each; total ~ 15 minutes) of clicks and 120 trials (10 s each; total ~120 minutes) of broadband peaky speech narrated by a male and female with their original f0s (low & high respectively) and f0s
shifted to the other narrator's f0 and an f0 at the midpoint between the f0s. Click rates matched the speech f0s. Participants reclined in a dark room and were encouraged to rest. They did not have to pay attention to the audio files. For details, see the `Details about
the experiment` section and refer to our paper.

Stimuli and regressors to derive the responses are provided in the dataset stimuli folder. Code to derive the responses are openly available on the Polonenko lab's github site: https://github.com/polonenkolab.

Format
------
The dataset is formatted according to the EEG Brain Imaging Data Structure.
See the `dataset_description.json` file for the specific version used.
Generally, you can find detailed event data in the .tsv files and descriptions
in the accompanying .json files. Raw eeg files are provided in the Brain
Products format.

Details about the experiment
----------------------------
For a detailed description of the task, see Polonenko & Maddox (2024) and the
supplied `task-peaky_pitch_eeg.json` file. The 6 peaky speech conditions
(2 narrators x 3 f0s) were randomly interleaved for each block of trials
(i.e., for trial 1, the 6 conditions were randomized) and the story token
was randomized. This means that the participant would not be able to follow
the story. For clicks the trials were not randomized (already random clicks).

Trigger onset times in the tsv files have already been corrected for the tubing
delay of the insert earphones (but not in the events of the raw files).
Triggers with values of "1" were recorded to the onset of the 10 s audio, and
shortly after triggers with values of "4" or "8" were stamped to indicate the
overall trial number out of 120 for each speech conditon and out of 30 for each
click condition. This was done by converting the decimal trial number to bits,
denoted b, then calculating 2 ** (b + 2). We've specified these trial numbers
and more metadata of the events in each of the '*_eeg_events.tsv" file, which
is sufficient to know which trial corresponded to which type of stimulus
(clicks, male narrator, female narrator), which f0 (low, mid, high), and which
file - e.g., male000_lowf0.wav for the male narrator with the low f0.


